[en]: update config/multus-cr (#5137)
DaoCloud/DaoCloud-docs: docs/en/docs/network/config/multus-cr.md

---
MTPE: WANG0608GitHub
DATE: 2024-08-01
---

# Creating a Multus CR

Multus CR management is the secondary encapsulation of configuration instances in Multus CNI by Spiderpool.
It aims to provide more flexible network connectivity and configuration options for containers
to meet different network requirements and provide users with a simpler and more cost-effective experience.
This page explains how to create a Multus CR before using multiple NIC configurations for creating workloads.
If you need to create a new **Multus CR instance**, you can refer to this document.

## Prerequisite

> [SpiderPool is successfully deployed](../modules/spiderpool/install/install.md), and the new version of SpiderPool includes all the features of Multus-underlay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[SpiderPool has been successfully deployed](../modules/spiderpool/install/install.md) since [v0.8.7](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/releases/tag/v0.8.7), which fully supports Multus-underlay.
```
中文也要相应修改，今天的`新`不是一直新，需要指出具体的版本号

> ## UI Interface Operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## UI Operations
```
UI = user interface. Interface 冗余

1. After logging in to the DCE UI, click __Container Management__ -> __Clusters__ in the left navigation menu to find the proper cluster. Then click __Container Network__ -> __Network Settings__ on the left navigation menu.

    ![config](https://docs.daocloud.io/daocloud-docs-images/docs/en/docs/network/images/networkconfig01.png)

2. Enter __Network Settings__ -> __Multus CR Management__ , and click __Create Multus CR__ .

    ![Multus CR Management](https://docs.daocloud.io/daocloud-docs-images/docs/en/docs/network/images/networkconfig02.png)

    !!! note

>         When creating a Multus CR, the CNI type can only be one of the following four types: macvlan, ipvlan, sriov, or custom. There are three scenarios available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        When creating a Multus CR, the CNI shall be either macvlan, ipvlan, sriov, or custom. Three scenarios are available as below.
```

    - balance-tlb
    - balance-alb

- `IPv4 Default Pool`: IPv4 default pool in the CNI configuration file.
- `IPv6 Default Pool`: IPv6 default pool in the CNI configuration file.
Parameters are optional, and the input format is `k1=v1;k2=v2;k3=v3`, separated by `;`.

#### VLAN Configuration

- Underlay network refers to the underlying physical network, usually involving VLAN networks.
If the Underlay network does not involve VLAN networks, there is no need to configure the VLAN ID(default value is 0).
- **For VLAN subinterfaces**:
    - If the network administrator has already created the VLAN subinterfaces,
    there is no need to fill in the VLAN ID (default value is 0), just fill in the created VLAN subinterface in the Network Interface (Master) field.

>     - If automatic creation of VLAN subinterfaces is required, the VLAN ID needs to be configured,
>     and the main network interface (Master) should be set to the proper parent interface.
>     When creating a Pod, Spiderpool dynamically creates a subinterface named `<master>.<vlanID>` on the host to connect the pod to the VLAN network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If automatic creation of VLAN subinterfaces is required, the VLAN ID needs to be configured,
      and the main network interface (Master) should be set to the proper parent interface.
      When creating a Pod, Spiderpool dynamically creates a subinterface named `<master>.<vlanID>`
      on the host to connect the pod to the VLAN network.
```
折行之后都要对齐，下文不再重复 comments

- **For Bond NIC**:
    - If the network administrator has already created the Bond NIC and is using it to connect the Underlay network of the pod,
    there is no need to fill in the VLAN ID (default value is 0), and just fill in the name of the created Bond NIC in the Network Interface (Master) field.
    - If automatic creation of Bond NIC is required without creating VLAN subinterfaces,
    VLAN ID needs to be set to 0 and configured at least 2 network interfaces (Master) to form the Bond's Slave NICs. when creating a pod,
    Spiderpool dynamically creates a Bond NIC on the host to connect it to the Underlay network.
- **For RDMA NIC**:
    - If exposing the RoCE NIC on the host to the pod based on Macvlan/IPVLAN/SRIOV, the VLAN ID does not need to be filled in and defaults to 0.

- **Using Bond NIC to create VLAN subinterfaces**:
    - when the Bond NIC is created, VLAN subinterfaces needs to be created to accommodate the pod network at the same time,
    the VLAN ID needs to be configured. Spiderpool dynamically creates a VLAN subinterface
    named `<bondName>.<vlanID>` on the host when creating a pod to connect it to the VLAN network.

>     - All interfaces created through Spiderpool are not configured with IP addresses,
>     and these interfaces are not persistent. If they are accidentally deleted or the node is restarted,
>     these interfaces will be deleted, and they will be automatically re-created after restarting the pod.
>     If persistence of these interfaces or configuration of IP addresses is required, consider using the [nmcli](https://networkmanager.dev/docs/api/latest/nmcli.html) tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - All interfaces created through Spiderpool are not configured with IP addresses,
      and these interfaces are not persistent. If they are accidentally deleted or the node is restarted,
      these interfaces will be deleted, and they will be automatically re-created after restarting the pod.
      If persistence of these interfaces or configuration of IP addresses is required, consider using the
      [nmcli](https://networkmanager.dev/docs/api/latest/nmcli.html) tool.
```
折行之后也要对齐
